Sarah Martinez: Hi David, can you hear me alright?
David Chang: Yes, coming through clear. Just finishing up some maintenance logs.
Sarah Martinez: Perfect timing. Thanks for meeting today. I understand you manage the biomedical engineering team that handles all cardiac equipment across your three hospitals?
David Chang: That's right. We oversee about 200 cardiac monitoring devices, 15 imaging systems, and all the associated infrastructure. Everything from basic telemetry units to advanced imaging systems. Been doing this for about twelve years now, and I have to say, the complexity has increased exponentially, especially with all the networked features and software dependencies.
Sarah Martinez: Could you walk me through your typical device management workflow?
David Chang: Sure. Let's use your CardioWatch system as an example. We're managing about 80 units across our facilities. Each one needs preventive maintenance every 90 days, which includes physical inspection, calibration checks, battery testing, and network connectivity verification. Then there's the software side – firmware updates, configuration management, and integration testing. The challenge is that these aren't just standalone monitors anymore. Each one is part of a complex network of systems, so any maintenance has to be carefully coordinated to avoid disrupting patient care.
Sarah Martinez: What are some of the biggest challenges you face with maintenance and upkeep?
David Chang: Parts availability is a major issue. Your newer models use proprietary components that we can't source independently. Even simple things like battery replacements have to go through your supply chain, which can take weeks. And the cost is significant – we're paying premium prices for basic components. The other challenge is documentation. The service manuals aren't always updated to match the software versions we're running, so we sometimes discover compatibility issues in the middle of a maintenance procedure.
Sarah Martinez: How do you handle emergency repairs and troubleshooting?
David Chang: That's actually gotten more complicated with the newer systems. The devices have more self-diagnostic capabilities, which is good, but they also have more failure modes. When a CardioWatch unit fails, the error codes aren't always helpful. We might get a general "system error" that could mean anything from a network connectivity issue to a failed sensor. We have to go through multiple troubleshooting steps, and sometimes we end up replacing components unnecessarily because the diagnostics aren't specific enough. And during all this time, the unit is out of service, which impacts patient care.
Sarah Martinez: What about your inventory management system? How do you track all these devices?
David Chang: We use our own biomedical equipment tracking system, but it doesn't integrate well with your service portal. We have to maintain duplicate records – one set in our system and another in yours for warranty purposes. Asset tracking is also a challenge. These devices move between departments frequently, and while they have network connectivity for patient data, they don't have any built-in location tracking. We've actually started adding our own asset tags with Bluetooth tracking because we were spending too much time just looking for devices that had been moved.
Sarah Martinez: Could you tell me more about how you manage device configurations?
David Chang: Configuration management is one of our biggest headaches. Each unit needs different settings based on its location and use case. ICU monitors need different alarm parameters than telemetry units on the general floor. When we move devices between departments, we have to reconfigure them, but the process isn't streamlined. We can't easily save and load configuration profiles. And when there's a software update, all our custom configurations sometimes get reset to default values. We've started keeping spreadsheets of all the configuration parameters for each unit, but it's a manual process and prone to errors.
Sarah Martinez: How do you handle staff training on new equipment and features?
David Chang: Training is an ongoing challenge. The systems are becoming more complex, but our training resources are limited. Your company provides initial training when we get new equipment, but it's usually just basic operation and troubleshooting. We need more in-depth technical training for our biomedical staff. And when you release software updates with new features, the technical documentation often lags behind. We end up learning through trial and error, which isn't ideal when we're dealing with critical care equipment.
Sarah Martinez: What about remote diagnostics and support? How is that working for your team?
David Chang: Remote support has improved, but there are still limitations. Your remote diagnostics tool requires a specific network configuration that sometimes conflicts with our hospital IT security policies. And when we do get remote support, there's often a disconnect between the support team and our local realities. They'll suggest solutions that aren't practical in our environment or require parts we don't have on hand. We need better coordination between remote support and local biomedical teams.
Sarah Martinez: How do you handle device lifecycle management and replacement planning?
David Chang: Lifecycle management is complicated by the rapid pace of software changes. A device might be physically fine, but if it can't run the latest software version, it becomes obsolete. We're seeing this with some of our older CardioWatch units – they're only five years old, but they can't handle the newer software features. This creates budget pressure because we have to replace equipment earlier than planned. We need better forward compatibility and clearer lifecycle roadmaps to plan our capital expenditures.
Sarah Martinez: What about environmental factors? How do these systems hold up in different hospital environments?
David Chang: Environmental resilience varies. The main units are generally robust, but the accessories and sensors are another story. The electrode leads, in particular, don't hold up well to repeated cleaning with hospital-grade disinfectants. And in high-humidity areas like our cath lab, we see more hardware failures. Temperature is another factor – some of the monitoring units run quite hot when all features are active, which can be an issue in smaller rooms. We've had to add additional cooling in some areas just to keep the equipment operating within spec.
Sarah Martinez: How do you manage battery replacement and power issues?
David Chang: Battery management is more complex than it needs to be. The newer units have built-in batteries that can only be replaced by certified technicians. This means longer downtime and higher costs compared to the older units with simple battery packs. And the battery life indicators aren't always accurate – we've had units suddenly shut down despite showing adequate battery level. We've started doing our own battery runtime testing because we can't rely on the built-in indicators. Power management during patient transport is another issue – the units don't handle power transitions smoothly, sometimes requiring a full reboot.
Sarah Martinez: What about integration with other medical devices? How do you manage that?
David Chang: Device integration is a growing challenge. We're trying to create seamless patient monitoring environments where different devices can share data, but the proprietary protocols make this difficult. Even between your own devices, like the CardioWatch and CardioImage systems, the integration isn't straightforward. We've had to create custom interfaces in some cases, which then become another maintenance burden. And when we add devices from other vendors, it gets even more complicated. We need better adherence to standards and more open protocols.
Sarah Martinez: How do you handle quality assurance and compliance testing?
David Chang: Quality assurance is becoming more time-consuming with these networked systems. It's not enough to just test the device itself – we have to verify the entire data flow, from device to network to storage to display. Our regulatory compliance team requires documentation of all these tests, but the current systems don't make it easy to generate comprehensive test reports. And when we find issues, there's no clear way to track them through resolution. We end up maintaining separate quality management systems just for cardiac equipment.
Sarah Martinez: What about cybersecurity? How do you manage security updates and patches?
David Chang: Cybersecurity is a major concern. These devices are essentially medical computers on our network, but the security update process isn't as mature as it should be. Patches come out irregularly, and there's often confusion about which updates are critical versus optional. We've had situations where security patches conflict with the device software, causing stability issues. And the validation process for security updates is time-consuming – we have to test everything thoroughly because we can't risk taking critical monitoring systems offline due to a bad update.
Sarah Martinez: How do you handle device calibration and accuracy verification?
David Chang: Calibration procedures have actually become more complex with the newer systems. The devices have more parameters to calibrate, and the process requires specialized equipment that's expensive to maintain. We've also noticed that calibration drift seems to occur more frequently with the newer sensors. The self-calibration features are helpful, but they don't eliminate the need for regular manual calibration. And documenting calibration results is cumbersome – the systems don't provide easy ways to export calibration data for our records.
Sarah Martinez: What about spare parts management? How do you handle that?
David Chang: Spare parts management is complicated by the number of different models and versions we have to support. Each generation of device has its own spare parts requirements, and some parts aren't backward compatible even though they look identical. Storage is also an issue – some components have specific storage requirements for temperature and humidity, and others have limited shelf life. We've had cases where we thought we had the right spare part in stock, only to find it was for a different model version. We need better parts tracking and inventory management tools.
Sarah Martinez: If you could improve anything about these systems from a biomedical engineering perspective, what would it be?
David Chang: First, we need better serviceability – more modular designs, easier access to common wear items, and better diagnostic tools. Second, we need more standardization across different models and generations of equipment. And third, we need better documentation and training resources. The systems are becoming more complex, but the support resources aren't keeping pace. We're spending too much time figuring things out through trial and error instead of having clear, comprehensive technical documentation.
Sarah Martinez: How do you think these systems could be improved to make your job easier?
David Chang: I'd love to see more predictive maintenance capabilities – better self-diagnostics that can alert us to potential issues before they become failures. We also need better integration between the service documentation and our maintenance systems. And most importantly, we need more autonomy to perform basic maintenance and repairs. The current model of requiring vendor certification for even simple repairs isn't sustainable, especially when we need quick turnaround to maintain patient care.
Sarah Martinez: This has been incredibly helpful, David. Would you be open to participating in future product development discussions?
David Chang: Absolutely. The biomedical engineering perspective often gets overlooked in product development, so I'd be happy to provide input. Just let me know when you need more feedback.
Sarah Martinez: Thank you so much for your time today.
David Chang: Thanks, hope this helps improve future designs.